zsync 0.0.1
===========

zsync is a file transfer program. It allows you to download a file from a
remote web server, where you have a copy of an older version of the file on
your computer already. zsync downloads only the new parts of the file. It uses
the same algorithm as rsync.

zsync does not require any special server software or a shell account on the
remote system (rsync, in comparison, requires that you have an rsh or ssh
account, or that the remote system runs rsyncd). Instead, it uses a control
file - a .zsync file - that describes the file to be downloaded and enables
zsync to work out which blocks it needs. This file can be created by the admin
of the web server hosting the download, and placed alongside the file to
download - it is generated once, then any downloaders with zsync can use it.
Alternatively, anyone can download the file, make a .zsync and provide it to
other users (this is what I am doing for the moment).

The zsync web site is at http://zsync.moria.org.uk/ . There are likely to be
frequent releases, so check back often.

Installation
------------

See the file INSTALL for instructions on compiling and (optionally) installing
zsync.

As zsync is still at a very early stage, you may prefer not to install it, and
to run the program where you compile it. It will work fine that way - it has no
data files or libraries. The man(1) program on some systems will let you read
the man pages without installing them, e.g. man -l doc/zsync.1 .

zsync is free software. There is no implied support, no implied fitness for
purpose, no warranty. You use it at your own risk.

Use
---

In its simplest form:

zsync http://some.example.com/downloads/my-big-download.tar.zsync

Someone has to make a .zsync file for the download before you can use zsync. As
I am only just releasing 0.0.1, there won't be many such downloads around :-).
And you have to have an older copy of the file around, otherwise there is
little point in using zsync - zsync normally looks in the current directory for
a file of the same name as the one being downloaded (note: if the download is a
.gz file, the local file should be uncompressed - use gzip -d to decompress it
first). If the local file is not in the current directory or has a different
name, you can specify it with -i, e.g.:

zsync -i /var/lib/apt/lists/ftp.uk.debian.org_debian_dists_sarge_main_binary-i386_Packages http://zsync.moria.org.uk/streams/sarge/Packages.zsync

To offer a zsync download, use the zsyncmake program to produce a .zsync file.
You have to have a local copy of the file that you will be offering to
download.

zsyncmake -u http://some.example.org/downloads/my-big-download.tar.gz my-big-download.tar.gz

Note that zsync requires both the public URL for the full download, and a local
copy of the same file. Users will still need access to the full downloads -
zsync merely allows then to save time by only downloading parts of the file.

zsync will produce a file with the same name (but possibly removing any
extension for compression) with .zsync appended; this is the control file. You
then put this on your web server, and people can use the zsync client with it.

Feedback, Support
-----------------

Mail zsync-users@lists.sourceforge.net if you have questions about zsync. And
join the mailing list if you are using it a lot or are interested in the
ongoing development.

Copyright, Author
-----------------

zsync was written and is developed by Colin Phipps <cph@moria.org.uk>. It is
copyright (C) 2004 Colin Phipps. zsync is made available under the GNU General
Public License - see the file COPYING for details.

zsync is based on the rsync algorithm, by Andrew Trigell; and there is a little
of his code from rsync included in zsync (lib/mdfour.c). zsync also includes
code from zlib - see zlib/README for details.

